biocypher_education/tutorials/tutorial_A/tutorial_a.md, before:

# Title

## Overview

## Setup

### Section 1. Exploratory Data Analysis
TODO: [Edwin] add a description about the dummy dataset we are going to use.

TODO: [Edwin] provide a link to the data possible in Zenodo?

### Section 2. Graph Modeling
TODO: [Edwin] add a example about the final graph

### Section 3. Graph creation with `BioCypher`

#### Step 1. Configuration

##### Configure `BioCypher` behavior
TODO: [Shuangshuang] explain a little bit how we are going to configure BioCypher for this example:

BioCypher includes a default set of configuration parameters(you can see in [Default Configuration](https://biocypher.org/BioCypher/reference/biocypher-config/#default-configuration)), which you can overwrite them by creating a `biocypher_config.yaml` file in the root directory or the `config` directory of your project. You only need to specify the ones you wish to override from default. 
Now we use the following `biocypher_config.yaml` as an example:
```yaml
biocypher:
  offline: true
  debug: false
  schema_config_path: config/schema_config.yaml
  cache_directory: .cache

neo4j:
  delimiter: '\t'
  array_delimiter: "|"
  skip_duplicate_nodes: true
  skip_bad_relationships: true
  import_call_bin_prefix: /usr/bin/
```
The first block is the BioCypher Core Settings, which starts with `biocypher:`

```yaml
  offline: true
```
Whether to run in offline mode (no running DBMS or in-memory object)
```yaml
  debug: false
```
Whether to enable debug logging
```yaml
  schema_config_path: config/schema_config.yaml
```
Path to the schema configuration file
```yaml
  cache_directory: .cache
```
Directory for cache files

The second block is the Database Management System Settings, which starts with the name of the DBMS, in this case it's `neo4j:`

```yaml
  delimiter: '\t'
```
Field delimiter for CSV import files
```yaml
  array_delimiter: "|"
```
Delimiter for array values
```yaml
  skip_duplicate_nodes: true
```
Whether to skip duplicate nodes during import
```yaml
  skip_bad_relationships: true
```
Whether to skip relationships with missing endpoints
```yaml
  import_call_bin_prefix: /usr/bin/
```
Prefix for the import command binary (optional)

For more configuration parameters for the Settings, please check [BioCypher Configuration Reference](https://biocypher.org/BioCypher/reference/biocypher-config/)


##### Create a schema for your graph
TODO: [Shuangshuang] explain a little bit how to produce this schema based on data and modeling section

Except the [BioCypher configuration](#configure-biocypher-behavior) we mentioned in the above, there is another Schema configuration to configure the BioCypher graph structure with YAML file, which is named as `schema_config.yaml`.

Now we use the following proteins import `schema_config.yaml` as an example:

```yaml
protein:
    represented_as: node
    preferred_id: uniprot
    input_label: uniprot_protein

protein protein interaction:
    is_a: pairwise molecular interaction
    represented_as: edge
    input_label: protein_protein_interaction
    properties:
        is_stimulation: bool
        is_inhibition: bool
        consensus_direction: bool
        consensus_stimulation: bool
        consensus_inhibition: bool

binding:
    is_a: protein protein interaction
    inherit_properties: true
    represented_as: edge
    input_label: binding
```
TODO: [Edwin] explain a little bit about how to express the ontological backbone Biolink model

The first block is the node settings. In this case, it starts with `protein:` since we import proteins.

```yaml
    represented_as: node
```
The `represented_as` key tells BioCypher in which way each entity should be represented in the graph, it's either `node` or `edge`

```yaml
    preferred_id: uniprot
```
TODO: [Edwin] explain a little bit about `preferred_id` key
```yaml
    input_label: uniprot_protein
```
The adapter reads the input data stream and output the node tuples with format `[id,label,properties]` for BioCypher to take care. ID and label are mandatory while properties are optional. In this case, we didn't configure the properties for node. `input_label` key indicates which `label` to expect in the node tuple and all other input nodes that do not carry this label are ignored as long as they are not in the schema configuration.

The second block is the relationship settings. In this case, it starts with `protein protein interaction:` since we import protein interactions in this case.

```yaml
    is_a: pairwise molecular interaction

```
the `is_a` key is used to define inheritance
```yaml
    represented_as: edge
```
here the `represented_as` is `edge` because this block configures the relationship.
```yaml
    input_label: protein_protein_interaction
```
The adapter reads the input data stream and output the edge tuples with format `[id,source_id,target_id,edge_label,properties]` for BioCypher to take care. IDs and label are mandatory while properties are optional.`input_label` key indicates which `edge_label` to expect in the edge tuple and all other input edges that do not carry this label are ignored as long as they are not in the schema configuration.

```yaml
    properties:
        is_stimulation: bool
        is_inhibition: bool
        consensus_direction: bool
        consensus_stimulation: bool
        consensus_inhibition: bool
```
properties are optional and can include different types of information on the entities.


#### Step 2. Create an adapter

#### Step 4. Create a knowledge graph script

- Create a BioCypher object


- Instantiate your adapter


- Write data from your adapter to BioCypher
  
### Section 4. Interacting with your graph using Neo4j
#### Load the graph using an import script
#### Visualize the graph
#### Execute cypher queries

Commit message:

express the third block of the schema configuration

biocypher_education/tutorials/tutorial_A/tutorial_a.md, after:

# Title

## Overview

## Setup

### Section 1. Exploratory Data Analysis
TODO: [Edwin] add a description about the dummy dataset we are going to use.

TODO: [Edwin] provide a link to the data possible in Zenodo?

### Section 2. Graph Modeling
TODO: [Edwin] add a example about the final graph

### Section 3. Graph creation with `BioCypher`

#### Step 1. Configuration

##### Configure `BioCypher` behavior
TODO: [Shuangshuang] explain a little bit how we are going to configure BioCypher for this example:

BioCypher includes a default set of configuration parameters(you can see in [Default Configuration](https://biocypher.org/BioCypher/reference/biocypher-config/#default-configuration)), which you can overwrite them by creating a `biocypher_config.yaml` file in the root directory or the `config` directory of your project. You only need to specify the ones you wish to override from default. 
Now we use the following `biocypher_config.yaml` as an example:
```yaml
biocypher:
  offline: true
  debug: false
  schema_config_path: config/schema_config.yaml
  cache_directory: .cache

neo4j:
  delimiter: '\t'
  array_delimiter: "|"
  skip_duplicate_nodes: true
  skip_bad_relationships: true
  import_call_bin_prefix: /usr/bin/
```
The first block is the BioCypher Core Settings, which starts with `biocypher:`

```yaml
  offline: true
```
Whether to run in offline mode (no running DBMS or in-memory object)
```yaml
  debug: false
```
Whether to enable debug logging
```yaml
  schema_config_path: config/schema_config.yaml
```
Path to the schema configuration file
```yaml
  cache_directory: .cache
```
Directory for cache files

The second block is the Database Management System Settings, which starts with the name of the DBMS, in this case it's `neo4j:`

```yaml
  delimiter: '\t'
```
Field delimiter for CSV import files
```yaml
  array_delimiter: "|"
```
Delimiter for array values
```yaml
  skip_duplicate_nodes: true
```
Whether to skip duplicate nodes during import
```yaml
  skip_bad_relationships: true
```
Whether to skip relationships with missing endpoints
```yaml
  import_call_bin_prefix: /usr/bin/
```
Prefix for the import command binary (optional)

For more configuration parameters for the Settings, please check [BioCypher Configuration Reference](https://biocypher.org/BioCypher/reference/biocypher-config/)


##### Create a schema for your graph
TODO: [Shuangshuang] explain a little bit how to produce this schema based on data and modeling section

Except the [BioCypher configuration](#configure-biocypher-behavior) we mentioned in the above, there is another Schema configuration to configure the BioCypher graph structure with YAML file, which is named as `schema_config.yaml`.

Now we use the following proteins import `schema_config.yaml` as an example:

```yaml
protein:
    represented_as: node
    preferred_id: uniprot
    input_label: uniprot_protein

protein protein interaction:
    is_a: pairwise molecular interaction
    represented_as: edge
    input_label: protein_protein_interaction
    properties:
        is_stimulation: bool
        is_inhibition: bool
        consensus_direction: bool
        consensus_stimulation: bool
        consensus_inhibition: bool

binding:
    is_a: protein protein interaction
    inherit_properties: true
    represented_as: edge
    input_label: binding
```
TODO: [Edwin] explain a little bit about how to express the ontological backbone Biolink model

The first block is the node settings. In this case, it starts with `protein:` since we import proteins.

```yaml
    represented_as: node
```
The `represented_as` key tells BioCypher in which way each entity should be represented in the graph, it's either `node` or `edge`

```yaml
    preferred_id: uniprot
```
TODO: [Edwin] explain a little bit about `preferred_id` key
```yaml
    input_label: uniprot_protein
```
The adapter reads the input data stream and output the node tuples with format `[id,label,properties]` for BioCypher to take care. ID and label are mandatory while properties are optional. In this case, we didn't configure the properties for node. `input_label` key indicates which `label` to expect in the node tuple and all other input nodes that do not carry this label are ignored as long as they are not in the schema configuration.

The second block is the relationship settings. In this case, it starts with `protein protein interaction:` since we import protein interactions in this case.

```yaml
    is_a: pairwise molecular interaction

```
the `is_a` key is used to define inheritance
```yaml
    represented_as: edge
```
here the `represented_as` is `edge` because this block configures the relationship.
```yaml
    input_label: protein_protein_interaction
```
The adapter reads the input data stream and output the edge tuples with format `[id,source_id,target_id,edge_label,properties]` for BioCypher to take care. IDs and label are mandatory while properties are optional.`input_label` key indicates which `edge_label` to expect in the edge tuple and all other input edges that do not carry this label are ignored as long as they are not in the schema configuration.

```yaml
    properties:
        is_stimulation: bool
        is_inhibition: bool
        consensus_direction: bool
        consensus_stimulation: bool
        consensus_inhibition: bool
```
properties are optional and can include different types of information on the entities.

The third block is a child relationship inherits from `protein protein interaction`. Sometimes, explicit designation of properties requires a lot of maintenance work, particularly for classes with many properties. In these cases, it may be more convenient to inherit properties from a parent class. 
```yaml
    is_a: protein protein interaction
    inherit_properties: true
```
This is done by defining inheritance via the `is_a` key in the child class configuration and setting the `inherit_properties` key to `true`.
```yaml
    represented_as: edge
```
here the `represented_as` is `edge` because this block configures the relationship.
```yaml
    input_label: binding
```
In this case, all other input edges that do not carry this `binding` label are ignored as long as they are not in the schema configuration.


#### Step 2. Create an adapter

#### Step 4. Create a knowledge graph script

- Create a BioCypher object


- Instantiate your adapter


- Write data from your adapter to BioCypher
  
### Section 4. Interacting with your graph using Neo4j
#### Load the graph using an import script
#### Visualize the graph
#### Execute cypher queries
